Last decade witnessed the outbreak of many life-threatening human pathogens 
including Nipah, Ebola, Chikungunya, Zika, Middle East respiratory syndrome 
coronavirus (MERS-CoV), Severe Acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus (SARS-CoV) 
and more recently novel coronavirus (2019-nCoV or SARS-CoV-2). The disease 
condition associated with novel coronavirus, referred to as Coronavirus disease 
(COVID-19). The emergence of novel coronavirus in 2019 in Wuhan, China marked 
the third highly pathogenic coronavirus infecting humans in the 21st century. 
The continuing emergence of coronaviruses at regular intervals poses a 
significant threat to human health and economy. Ironically, even after a decade 
of research on coronavirus, still there are no licensed vaccines or therapeutic 
agents to treat coronavirus infection which highlights an urgent need to develop 
effective vaccines or post-exposure prophylaxis to prevent future epidemics. 
Several clinical, genetic and epidemiological features of COVID-19 resemble 
SARS-CoV infection. Hence, the research advancements on SARS-CoV treatment might 
help scientific community in quick understanding of this virus pathogenesis and 
develop effective therapeutic/prophylactic agents to treat and prevent this 
infection. Monoclonal antibodies represent the major class of biotherapeutics 
for passive immunotherapy to fight against viral infection. The therapeutic 
potential of monoclonal antibodies has been well recognized in the treatment of 
many diseases. Here, we summarize the potential monoclonal antibody based 
therapeutic intervention for COVID-19 by considering the existing knowledge on 
the neutralizing monoclonal antibodies against similar coronaviruses SARS-CoV 
and MERS-CoV. Further research on COVID-19 pathogenesis could identify 
appropriate therapeutic targets to develop specific anti-virals against this 
newly emerging pathogen.
