This paper concerns study of the genome of the Wuhan Seafood Market isolate 
believed to represent the causative agent of the disease COVID-19. This is to 
find a short section or sections of viral protein sequence suitable for 
preliminary design proposal for a peptide synthetic vaccine and a peptidomimetic 
therapeutic, and to explore some design possibilities. The project was 
originally directed towards a use case for the Q-UEL language and its 
implementation in a knowledge management and automated inference system for 
medicine called the BioIngine, but focus here remains mostly on the virus 
itself. However, using Q-UEL systems to access relevant and emerging literature, 
and to interact with standard publically available bioinformatics tools on the 
Internet, did help quickly identify sequences of amino acids that are well 
conserved across many coronaviruses including 2019-nCoV. KRSFIEDLLFNKV was found 
to be particularly well conserved in this study and corresponds to the region 
around one of the known cleavage sites of the SARS virus that are believed to be 
required for virus activation for cell entry. This sequence motif and 
surrounding variations formed the basis for proposing a specific synthetic 
vaccine epitope and peptidomimetic agent. The work can, nonetheless, be 
described in traditional bioinformatics terms, and readily reproduced by others, 
albeit with the caveat that new data and research into 2019-nCoV is emerging and 
evolving at an explosive pace. Preliminary studies using molecular modeling and 
docking, and in that context the potential value of certain known herbal 
extracts, are also described