BACKGROUND Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19), formerly known as severe acute 
respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) and 2019 novel coronavirus 
(2019-nCoV), was first identified in December 2019 in Wuhan City, China. 
Structural equation modeling (SEM) is a multivariate analysis method to 
determine the structural relationship between measured variables. This 
observational study aimed to use SEM to determine the effects of social support 
on sleep quality and function of medical staff who treated patients with 
COVID-19 in January and February 2020 in Wuhan, China. MATERIAL AND METHODS A 
one-month cross-sectional observational study included 180 medical staff who 
treated patients with COVID-19 infection. Levels of anxiety, self-efficacy, 
stress, sleep quality, and social support were measured using the and the 
Self-Rating Anxiety Scale (SAS), the General Self-Efficacy Scale (GSES), the 
Stanford Acute Stress Reaction (SASR) questionnaire, the Pittsburgh Sleep 
Quality Index (PSQI), and the Social Support Rate Scale (SSRS), respectively. 
Pearson's correlation analysis and SEM identified the interactions between these 
factors. RESULTS Levels of social support for medical staff were significantly 
associated with self-efficacy and sleep quality and negatively associated with 
the degree of anxiety and stress. Levels of anxiety were significantly 
associated with the levels of stress, which negatively impacted self-efficacy 
and sleep quality. Anxiety, stress, and self-efficacy were mediating variables 
associated with social support and sleep quality. CONCLUSIONS SEM showed that 
medical staff in China who were treating patients with COVID-19 infection during 
January and February 2020 had levels of anxiety, stress, and self-efficacy that 
were dependent on sleep quality and social support.