
In December 2019, a new virus (initially called 'Novel Coronavirus 2019-nCoV' 
and later renamed to SARS-CoV-2) causing severe acute respiratory syndrome 
(coronavirus disease COVID-19) emerged in Wuhan, Hubei Province, China, and 
rapidly spread to other parts of China and other countries around the world, 
despite China's massive efforts to contain the disease within Hubei. As with the 
original SARS-CoV epidemic of 2002/2003 and with seasonal influenza, geographic 
information systems and methods, including, among other application 
possibilities, online real-or near-real-time mapping of disease cases and of 
social media reactions to disease spread, predictive risk mapping using 
population travel data, and tracing and mapping super-spreader trajectories and 
contacts across space and time, are proving indispensable for timely and 
effective epidemic monitoring and response. This paper offers pointers to, and 
describes, a range of practical online/mobile GIS and mapping dashboards and 
applications for tracking the 2019/2020 coronavirus epidemic and associated 
events as they unfold around the world. Some of these dashboards and 
applications are receiving data updates in near-real-time (at the time of 
writing), and one of them is meant for individual users (in China) to check if 
the app user has had any close contact with a person confirmed or suspected to 
have been infected with SARS-CoV-2 in the recent past. We also discuss 
additional ways GIS can support the fight against infectious disease outbreaks 
and epidemics.