An outbreak of 2019 novel coronavirus diseases (COVID-19) in Wuhan, 
China has spread quickly nationwide. Here, we report results of a descriptive, 
exploratory analysis of all cases diagnosed as of February 11, 2020. Methods: 
All COVID-19 cases reported through February 11, 2020 were extracted from 
China's Infectious Disease Information System. Analyses included: 1) summary of 
patient characteristics; 2) examination of age distributions and sex ratios; 3) 
calculation of case fatality and mortality rates; 4) geo-temporal analysis of 
viral spread; 5) epidemiological curve construction; and 6) subgroup analysis. 
Results: A total of 72 314 patient records-44 672 (61.8%) confirmed cases, 16 
186 (22.4%) suspected cases, 10567 (14.6%) clinical diagnosed cases (Hubei 
only), and 889 asymptomatic cases (1.2%)-contributed data for the analysis. 
Among confirmed cases, most were aged 30-79 years (86.6%), diagnosed in Hubei 
(74.7%), and considered mild/mild pneumonia (80.9%). A total of 1 023 deaths 
occurred among confirmed cases for an overall case-fatality rate of 2.3%. The 
COVID-19 spread outward from Hubei sometime after December 2019 and by February 
11, 2020, 1 386 counties across all 31 provinces were affected. The epidemic 
curve of onset of symptoms peaked in January 23-26, then began to decline 
leading up to February 11. A total of 1 716 health workers have become infected 
and 5 have died (0.3%). Conclusions: The COVID-19 epidemic has spread very 
quickly. It only took 30 days to expand from Hubei to the rest of Mainland 
China. With many people returning from a long holiday, China needs to prepare 
for the possible rebound of the epidemic.