
A novel coronavirus (nCoV) spillover event, with its epicenter in Wuhan, 
People's Republic of China, has emerged as a public health emergency of 
international concern. This began as an outbreak in December 2019, and till 
February 28, 2020, there have been 83,704 confirmed cases of novel coronavirus 
disease 2019 (COVID-19) globally, with 2,859 deaths, resulting in an overall 
case fatality rate of 3.41 per cent (95% confidence interval 3.29-3.54%). By 
this time (February 28, 2020) 58 countries or territories and one international 
conveyance (Diamond Princess Cruise Ship) were affected. As a part of the global 
response to manage and contain the pandemic, major emphasis was placed on 
generating research intelligence to guide evidence-based responses to contain 
the virus, which was named severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 
(SARS-CoV-2), owing to its genetic similarities with the SARS virus. This review 
summarizes the emerging evidence which can help guide the public health 
response, particularly in India. Key areas have been identified in which 
research needs to be conducted to generate critical intelligence for advising 
prevention and control efforts. The emergence of SARS-CoV-2 has once again 
exposed the weaknesses of global health systems preparedness, ability to respond 
to an infectious threat, the rapidity of transmission of infections across 
international borders and the ineffectiveness of knee-jerk policy responses to 
emerging/re-emerging infectious disease threats. The review concludes with the 
key learning points from the ongoing efforts to prevent and contain COVID-19 and 
identifies the need to invest in health systems, community-led response 
mechanisms and the need for preparedness and global health security.