PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS-CoV-2) 
is the virus responsible for the aggressive coronavirus disease (COVID-19) 
pandemic. Recently, investigators have stipulated that COVID-19 patients 
receiving angiotensin-converting-enzyme inhibitors (ACEI) may be subject to 
poorer outcomes. This editorial presents the available evidence to guide 
treatment practices during this pandemic.
RECENT FINDINGS: Recent studies from Wuhan cohorts provide valuable information 
about COVID-19. A cohort with 52 critically ill patients revealed cardiac injury 
in 12% of patients. Worse outcomes appear to be more prevalent in patients with 
hypertension and diabetes mellitus (DM), possibly due to overexpression of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme 2 (ACE2) receptor in airway alveolar epithelial 
cells. Investigators suspect that SARS-CoV-2 uses the ACE2 receptor to enter the 
lungs in a mechanism similar to SARS-CoV. Several hypotheses have been proposed 
to date regarding the net effect of ACEI/ARB on COVID-19 infections. Positive 
effects include ACE2 receptor blockade, disabling viral entry into the heart and 
lungs, and an overall decrease in inflammation secondary to ACEI/ARB. Negative 
effects include a possible retrograde feedback mechanism, by which ACE2 
receptors are upregulated. Even though physiological models of SARS-CoV 
infection show a theoretical benefit of ACEI/ARB, these findings cannot be 
extrapolated to SARS-CoV-2 causing COVID-19. Major cardiology scientific 
associations, including ACC, HFSA, AHA, and ESC Hypertension Council, have 
rejected these correlation hypotheses. After an extensive literature review, we 
conclude that there is no significant evidence to support an association for 
now, but given the rapid evolvement of this pandemic, findings may change.
