India is undergoing rapid nutrition transition concurrent with an 
increase in obesity, metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes (T2DM). There is a 
shift from a healthy traditional home-cooked high-fiber, low-fat, low-calorie 
diet, towards increasing consumption of packaged, ready-to-eat foods which are 
calorie-dense and contain refined carbohydrates, high fat, salt and sugar; and 
less fiber. Although fats and oils have been an integral part of our diets, 
there is a change in the pattern of consumption, in terms of both quality and  A literature search was conducted using the terms "fats, oil 
consumption in India, effects of vegetable oils, obesity and T2DM in Indians" in 
the medical search database PubMed (National Library of Medicine, Bethesda, MD, 
USA) from 1966 to June 2016. A manual search of the relevant quoted references 
was also carried out from the retrieved articles. Data have also been taken from 
nutritional surveys in India and worldwide, websites and published documents of 
the World Health Organization, the Food and Agricultural Organization, National 
Sample Survey Organization and websites of industries related to oil production.
CONCLUSION: Increasing use of saturated fat, low intake of n-3 poly unsaturated 
fatty acids and increase in trans-fatty acids, along with increasing intake of 
dietary sugars has been noted in India. Most importantly, traditional false 
beliefs and unawareness about health effects of oils continues to be prevalent. 
Aggressive public health awareness programs coupled with governmental action and 
guidelines tailored for Indian population are required, to promote less 
consumption of fats and oils, use of healthy oils and fats, decreased intake of 
saturated fats and trans fatty acids, and increase intake of n-3 
Poly-unsaturated fatty acids and mono-unsaturated fatty acids.