
1. Diabetes mellitus is a serious metabolic disorder with micro- and 
macrovascular complications that results in significant morbidity and mortality. 
2. The aim of the present study was to evaluate the hypoglycaemic efficacy of 
commonly used traditional Indian plants, such as Murraya koenigii, Mentha 
piperitae, Ocimum sanctum and Aegle marmelos, in streptozotocin (STZ)-induced 
experimental rats. 3. Oral administration of the ethanolic extract of these 
plants resulted in a significant decrease in the levels of blood glucose, 
glycosylated haemoglobin and urea, with a concomitant increase in glycogen, 
haemoglobin and protein, in diabetic rats. Treatment with these plant extracts 
also resulted in an increase in insulin and C-peptide levels and glucose 
tolerance. 4. The decreased activities of carbohydrate-metabolising enzymes, 
such as hexokinase, glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase and glycogen synthase, in 
diabetic rats were significantly elevated towards near normal in rats treated 
with extracts of M. koenigii, O. sanctum and A. marmelos; the increased 
activities of lactate dehydrogenase, fructose-1,6-bisphosphatase, 
glucose-6-phosphatase and glycogen phosphorylase in STZ diabetic rats were 
significantly reduced following treatment with the plant extracts. 5. Elevated 
specific binding of [(125)I]-labelled insulin to the receptor found in diabetic 
rats was markedly decreased in extract-treated groups. However, treatment of 
diabetic rats with M. piperitae did not result in any significant modification 
in all parameters. 6. Phytochemical screening conducted by us revealed the 
presence of biologically active ingredients in the ethanolic extracts of M. 
koenigii, O. sanctum and A. marmelos, which may readily account for the observed 
hypoglycaemic activity.